---
layout: post
title: IDB2
---

This week was our first week back from spring break. Though we expected as much, our group was not able to make much headway on the project over the break; we had a lot of work to do between Monday and Thursday night. We've found that it is more difficult for us to get work done when we can't meet to discuss, plan, and bounce ideas off of each other. We won't have many more similar opportunities to improve our independent work strategy, but it's definitely something we, as a group, want to work on.

## What did you do this past week?
This past week I focused entirely on the IDB2 project. Early in the week we finalized our public API scrapers and spent Wednesday and Thursday working on testing. We also spent some time integrating feedback from IDB1 and improving our first product. One of the challenges we've faced working as a group is finding a good way to split up work. For IDB1 we divided the project by "model," each group member working on both the front- and backend of "Representatives," "Parties," or "Districts." While the same strategy worked for splitting up the scrapers, we felt that the model strategy did not present as natural a division in IDB2. One of our goals for IDB3 is to plan ahead and split up tasks more equitably.

## What's in your way?
There are a few things in our way. First, IDB3 has not yet been released. Once it is released, we'll have a group meeting to divide the project into stories and split up tasks between us. Second, because we moved quickly this week, we added some needless clutter to our repository. Before we start IDB3, we'll need to do some cleanup work on the repo.

## What will you do next week?
Next week, I'll work on cleaning the repo from IDB2 and begin work on IDB3. In addition, I want to work on making our project README more user-friendly and concise. I hope to work on that too.

## What's my experience of the class?
This week the class started moving from Python to SQL and relational algebra. I've enjoyed the class thus far and I'm interested to see how the format of the class will change as we cover new material.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
My tip of the week is to say "yes" more! I realized that I naturally fall into a routine and it's been fun to make an effort to break out of it. I've decided to push myself to take more advice, go to new places, and try new things. Saying "yes" doesn't mean putting yourself in danger – you'd be surprised at how many everyday opportunities you choose not to take. I can't promise that you'll enjoy everything you try, but you'll be surprised about things you never expected you'd enjoy. And even if you don't like something - now you know!
