---
layout: post
title: IDB3
---

This post marks the tenth since I started the SWE class this year. It's crazy to see time go by so quickly. Days seem to pass slowly, but weeks rush by and suddenly it's Sunday again and I have a blog post to write.

## What did you do this past week?
My group spent this past week recovering from IDB2 and beginning work on IDB3. In our first IDB3 meeting, attempting to improve on our slapdash approach to IDB2, we began by dividing the project rubric into stories, and stories into tasks. However, because we couldn't initially find a time for our entire group to meet, we left the stories ownerless. Over the week, though, we were able to find a natural task division. I'm working on collecting more data from our current assortment of APIs, in an effort to improve our model details page. Though we've done a good job selecting and integrating the information we currently display on our site, I've felt for a while that we should find more information for our users to analyze. So far, I've been successful in ruling out some sources and beginning to integrate others, such as the New York Times' article search API.  

## What's in your way?
Again our biggest obstacle is finding a time for our entire group to meet. Though we've become accustomed to working on our own, we've found it useful to be in the same room while assigning tasks. We will continue working independently for the time being, but we plan to meet this week.

## What will you do next week?
Next week I will continue working on my portion of IDB3 and work with the group on integrating our disparate parts into a cohesive whole.

## What's my experience of the class?
I'm still enjoying the class. The IDB project is my first experience working with SQL, and I appreciate the opportunity to review it in-depth in class.

## What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?
My pick of the week is to read books and visit home. I spent this weekend celebrating Passover with my family in Dallas. I usually spend considerably more time reading on Saturdays and the holidays when, because of Jewish religious restrictions, I cannot use electronics or complete schoolwork. Being out of Austin is a good way to take a break and relax for a couple of days before diving back into school, and curling up with a good book is always my idea of a weekend well-spent. It's harder to carve out time to read during the week, but a good book always draws me back and I usually end up reading while falling asleep.
