---
layout: post
title: Final Entry
---

On our first day of class, Professor Downing [asked us](https://github.com/bzsinger/cs373-S18/blob/master/notes/01-17.py) to Google "cs373 fall 2017," read a post, and discuss our expectations for the course with another student. If you are a student sitting in your first Software Engineering class, I hope this post finds you well. Three and a half months ago, I was sitting where you were, committed to taking the class but unsure what to expect. No doubt people have given you glowing reviews of Professor Downing and the class – I didn't start hearing negative feedback until I was already in the class. That's not to say I didn't enjoy the class – I did. I just want to give you a balanced perspective before you get too far into the class.

## Lectures
Professor Downing lectures in two ways – by writing live notes and by running through examples. I would highly recommend sitting at the front of the class and taking notes. Only you know what material you'll remember more easily and what details aren't going to stick. And make sure to remember the details – you're going to get quizzed over them tomorrow.

## Quizzes
On our second day of class, Professor Downing quizzed us over the content of the syllabus. It was my first "3/5" in the class. The daily quizzes in this class are by far the most universally disliked aspect of the course. The questions hinge on small details of Python (and later, SQL) functions. They may be minutiae Professor Downing mentioned in class, drawn from the notes, or language features he never discussed. For the quizzes, you are expected to do the reading, review in detail his posted notes and examples, and run some practice code on your machine. Later on in the semester, Professor Downing will give attendance quizzes – ones you can get a "5/5" on just by indicating that you were present – but until then, it's crucial that you review the previous day's material. (By the way, all of the quizzes are locked with a four digit code that he provides in class.) Small tip – an easy way to get an indicator of what kind of quiz you'll have is clicking on the locked quiz ahead of time on Canvas and using the number of questions are on the assessment.

Professor Downing infamously does not allow make-up quizzes for any reason (sick day, religious holiday, job interview – all tried, none allowed). Over the course of the semester, you will take 40 quizzes, and your lowest 10 scores will be dropped. If you ask him about doing a quiz late, he will almost certainly tell you that you will need to drop it. In my semester, Professor Downing gave us 18 attendance quizzes and 22 material quizzes, so having a good overall quiz grade is doable. Just make sure to come to class, attend any guest speaker sessions that offer quiz credit, and study the material thoroughly.

## Material
In SWE, you will learn Python. You will learn about iterators, generators, and decorators, reflection, exceptions, and list comprehension, packing, unpacking, and refactoring. Though Python is an interesting and exciting language to learn and use, the primary value of the class is the IDB project. And though you learn Python and SQL through the lectures, the lectures are almost-entirely divorced from the major project. I wish the lectures would have been focused on both the technologies we were required to use and software engineering principles (creating useful user stories, agile methodology, industry experience). Those topics are unfortunately relegated to the readings, speakers, and outside research. Professor Downing is a good lecturer, but the lecture material, especially the focus on obscure Python features, felt slightly "in the weeds." My recommendation: don't take this class for the lecture content, take this class for the IDB project.

## IDB
The IDB project will be your central focus for the semester. You will choose your team of 5-6 other students within the next couple of days and work as a group for the remainder of the course. We were tasked with combining at least three public-facing RESTful APIs to find an interesting result. My group used two politics APIs (ProPublica and GovTrack) and the U.S. Census Bureau's API to collect data on political parties, representatives, and their House districts. Our interesting result was correlating the districts' demographic data with the representatives' voting patterns, and the parties' district control to tease out the interplay between district data and policies the parties and representatives advocated for. The project, for me, was incredibly fulfilling. You will spend the next three months working on a large-scale project with a small, focused team and you will be accountable to another group of customers. This project is the closest you will get to industry in a college class. The decisions you make this week will be crucial for the rest of the semester. Professor Downing gives very little direction related to learning the tools you will be required to use for this project. Choose your teammates wisely, focus on recruiting students who have experience setting up the necessary tools (AWS, React, Flask), and choose a project that interests the entire group. The sooner you get off the ground at each stage of the project, the better. Find teammates who are hard-working, serious, and committed – IDB isn't a group project you'll be able to (or want to) do alone.

## Tests
The final major component of this class are the two tests. Tests were entirely on HackerRank (and hopefully they still are all-HackerRank for you). Thankfully, the tests focus on understanding Python, SQL, and refactoring concepts, not the small details that the quizzes require knowledge of. In previous semesters, Professor Downing incorporated multiple choice questions into his exams, and I strongly agree with his decision to shift to entirely HackerRank questions. Begin studying early for tests and remember that  the second test has been historically more difficult than the first. I created a Github repository, [swe-study](https://github.com/bzsinger/swe-study), where I combined my handwritten notes, Professor Downing's [online notes](https://github.com/bzsinger/cs373-S18), personal observations about various Python and SQL features, and a list of possible test questions and answers. I strongly advise you do the same with your notes and material. The way to learn this material is to play around with it yourself. Become familiar with how and when to use the various language features Professor Downing discusses. Make Python second-nature. Only a day or two before the exam, begin working on your "cheat sheet." I've come to learn that the "cheat sheets" professors allow can easily become a crutch. If you focus on learning the material, reviewing the class notes, practicing questions, and redoing in-class HackerRanks and quizzes instead of thinking about what you want to put on your "cheat sheet," you're going to be at a significant advantage going into the exam. Most students will rarely reference the "cheat sheet" during the exam.

I want to wish you the best of luck, whether or not you decide to stay in this course!

## What did you like the least about the class?
The quizzes. Having daily quizzes encourages students to attend the class. Thus, in my view, the quizzes should reward the students who come and pay attention. Even a student who sits in the front and takes diligent notes is unlikely to know a small corner-case or odd behavior of a function. Some of the quiz questions seemed unreasonable. I would suggest shifting the quiz either to HackerRank questions or to focus on major functionality, rather than minor features that will not be tested later.

## What did you like the most about the class?
The IDB project. The project is by far the class's greatest selling point. The project can be, at times, fun and fulfilling and at other points, frustrating and irritating. That's a good thing. By the end of the semester, you will have a product that you can be proud of and show off.

## What's the most significant thing you learned?
How to work well with a group on a long-term project. That may sound like a silly answer, but in my college experience thus far, I have not had a group project as extensive and time-intensive as IDB. Learning to work well with a team, employing best practices (lint early, lint often – you won't regret it), and getting practice working in customer, programmer, and managerial roles has been extraordinarily valuable.

## How many hours a week did you spend coding for this class?
I would estimate I personally spent 10-20hrs per week coding. Thankfully, I had an excellent and diligent group, and we were able to spread out those hours over several days. Don't take a week off – no requirement is easy. Work early to give yourself time later to address unforeseen bugs.

## How many hours a week did you spend reading for this class?
Early on, the reading is more intensive. I spent 3-4hrs reading per week in the beginning months of the semester, and 1-2hrs reading later on.

## How many lines of code do you think you wrote?
I logged 89 commits (30,000+ additions, 40,000+ deletions) and 117 issues on [our repository](https://github.com/WeTheSWEople/SWEThePeople). I'd estimate I wrote between 500 and 2,000 lines of code. I'm not a fan of using those metrics for estimating work – some lines of code are far more significant than others, and often you can do in one line what would otherwise take seven. (You'll agree when you get to generators and comprehension.)

## What required tool did you not know and now find very useful?
I knew of React beforehand, but working on this project gave me a better understanding of its usefulness. I also appreciated the utility of opening and tracking bugs and features via Github issues (my teammates might joke that I appreciated it a little too much).

## What's the most useful Web dev tool that your group used that was not required?
Personally, our success in IDB was less about the tools we used and more about the way we used each. For many other teams, Github issues and project boards were inconsequential. For us, employing them was absolutely essential. My tip related to tools is to start using non-required tools early, before they become required. Use React in your very first project. You will need it later.

## If you could change one thing about the course, what would it be?
I would change the lecture content, shift the quizzes to be more comprehension-based, and entirely remove the tests. I'd make the IDB project more extensive and worth more points, and I would shift it to being the  centerpoint of the class more than it already is. My primary recommendation is to shift the lectures to focus more on software engineering. In my mind, the rest follows.

Before I sign off, I want to thank Professor Downing for offering and teaching this course. As usual, he did an excellent job. I would also like to thank our kind and patient TAs – Quang, Walter, Anikesh, and Kasra – for their help. And of course, I could not end without thanking my group-mates – Michael, Palak, Will, Minwoo, and Raul for their diligence, support, and hard-work. My experience in this class would have been entirely different without them.
